---
title: Sexuality Education (for P5 & P6 Parents)
permalink: /info-for-parents-and-students/information-for-parents/sexuality-education-for-p5-n-p6-parents/
description: ""
third_nav_title: Information for Parents
variant: tiptap
---
<h1><strong>Sexuality Education (for P5 &amp; P6 Parents)</strong></h1><h3><strong>MOE Sexuality Education in Schools</strong></h3><p>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sexuality Education (SEd) in schools aims to enable students to understand the physiological, social and emotional changes they experience as they mature, develop healthy and rewarding relationships with others, including those with members of the opposite sex, and make wise, informed and responsible decisions on sexuality matters. SEd is premised on the importance of the family as the basic unit of society. This means encouraging healthy, heterosexual marriages and stable nuclear family units with extended family support. The teaching and learning of SEd is based on respect for the values and beliefs of the different ethnic and religious communities in Singapore on sexuality issues.</p><p>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The <strong>Goals</strong> of Sexuality Education are:</p><p>(a)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Support students in managing their physiological, social and emotional changes as they grow up and develop safe and healthy relationships.</p><p>(b)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Guide students to make wise, informed and responsible decisions on sexuality matters.</p><p>(c)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Help students develop a moral compass and respect for themselves and others by having positive mainstream values and attitudes about sexuality that are premised on the family as the basic unit of society.</p><p>3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The <strong>Key Messages</strong> of Sexuality Education are:</p><p>(a)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Love and respect yourself as you love and respect others;</p><p>(b)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Build positive relationships based on love and respect (which are the foundation for strong families);</p><p>(c)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Make responsible decisions for yourself, your family and society; and</p><p>(d)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Abstinence before marriage is the best protection against STIs/HIV and unintended pregnancies. Casual sex can harm and hurt you and your loved ones.</p><p></p><p>You may&nbsp;click&nbsp;<a href="https://go.gov.sg/moe-sexuality-education" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a>&nbsp;(<a href="https://go.gov.sg/moe-sexuality-education" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://go.gov.sg/moe-sexuality-education</a>) for more information on MOE Sexuality Education.</p><p><strong>Overview of Jing Shan Primary&nbsp;School’s&nbsp;Sexuality Education Programme for 2022</strong></p><p>4.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Sexuality Education is delivered in a holistic manner through the school curriculum.&nbsp;The content for Sexuality Education is grouped into five main&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;themes: Human Development, Interpersonal Relationships, Sexual Health, Sexual Behaviour, and, Culture, Society and Law. You may click&nbsp;<a href="http://www.moe.gov.sg/education/programmes/social-emotional-learning/sexuality-education/scope/" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a>&nbsp;for&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;more information on the scope of Sexuality Education in the school curriculum.</p><p>5.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The subjects that incorporate topics on sexuality include:</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;a.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Science<br>&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;b.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Form Teacher Guidance Period (FTGP)<br>&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;c.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Character and Citizenship Education (CCE)</p><p><strong>Growing Years (GY) Programme</strong>**:**&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Sexuality Education</strong>: “Curious Minds (2nd&nbsp;Edition)” (Primary 5 &amp; 6) Teaching &amp; Learning resource package</p><p>6.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The upper primary years mark the onset of puberty.&nbsp; With better nutrition and improved health care, children are reaching puberty at a younger age&nbsp;and have to grapple with physical, emotional and psychological changes in themselves. The implication is that our children are becoming biologically&nbsp;ready for sexual activity sooner without necessarily having the corresponding cognitive or emotional maturity to modulate their behaviours. “Curious&nbsp;Minds” is a response to these challenges.</p><p>7.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The Primary 5 &amp; 6 Sexuality Education Teaching and Learing resource package, “Curious Minds (2nd&nbsp;Edition)”, aims to meet students’ developmental&nbsp;&nbsp;needs, give emphasis to the teaching of skills and values, and focus on helping&nbsp;students navigate&nbsp;<em>changes</em>, build healthy&nbsp;<em>relationships</em>, especially&nbsp;online relationships, and exercise&nbsp;<em>safety</em>.</p><p><strong>At Jing Shan Primary School, the following lessons from the Growing Years Programme will be taught in&nbsp;2022:</strong></p><h5>Primary 5</h5><table><tbody><tr><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>UNIT</strong></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>LESSONS / DURATION</strong></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>LESSON OBJECTIVES<br>At the end of the lesson, pupils will be able to:</strong></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>TIME PERIOD<br></strong></p></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="4" colspan="1"><p>Gosh! I Am Changing</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>What Is Happening To Me?<br>(30 min)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>• know what puberty is<br>• identify the physical changes during puberty</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 10</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>What Can I Do? (Part 1)<br>(30 min)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>• identify the stresses caused by physical and emotional changes during puberty<br>• describe healthy ways to manage the stresses caused by physical and emotional changes during puberty<br>• describe the emotions caused by physical changes during puberty<br>• recognise that one’s identity does not change even when one’s body is experiencing change due to puberty</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 10</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>What Can I Do? (Part 2)<br>(30 min)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>• identify the stresses caused by physical and emotional changes during puberty<br>• describe healthy ways to manage the stresses caused by these physical and emotional changes during puberty<br>• describe the emotions caused by physical changes during puberty<br>• recognise that one’s identity does not change even when one’s body is experiencing change due to puberty</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 10</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Main Task<br>(30 min)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Description of the Main Task:<br><br>Pupils are to play the role of an Uncle/Aunt Agony to help a peer address his/her experiences during puberty. They will consider the situation from the point of view of the peer and share ways to help him/her cope with the changes he/she is going through.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 10</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Where I Belong</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>What Are Families?<br>(30 min)<br></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>• know that there are different types of family structures<br>• know that every family is unique<br>• state that the three basic functions of families are to provide love, protection and guidance<br>• identify the right sources of help to turn to when in need</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 10</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Where I Belong</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>What is My Role?<br>(30 min)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>• know that gender is about being male or female<br>• choose not to stereotype by gender</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 10</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2" colspan="1"><p>How Do I Keep Myself Safe?</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>What is Safety?<br>(30 min)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>• know what sexual abuse is<br>• know that there are laws in Singapore that can protect them from sexual abuse<br>• know their rights in keeping themselves safe from sexual abuse</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 10</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Stop It! Run! Tell!<br>(30 min)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>• protect themselves by resisting, removing themselves from harm and seeking help from a trusted adult<br>• know their responsibilities in minimising the risk of sexual harm</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 10</p></td></tr></tbody></table><h5>Primary 6</h5><table><tbody><tr><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>UNIT</strong></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>LESSONS / DURATION</strong></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>LESSON OBJECTIVES<br>At the end of the lesson, pupils will be able to:</strong></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>TIME PERIOD<br></strong></p></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="5" colspan="1"><p>Are We More Than Friends?</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Who Are My Friends?<br>(30 min)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>• identify the qualities of a healthy friendship<br>• recognise the importance of making wise choices in friendship</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 1</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Am I A Good Friend?<br>(30 min)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>• identify the qualities that they have as a friend<br>• recognise the importance of developing in oneself the qualities of a good friend</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 1</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>What is Love?<br>(30 min)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>• identify the characteristics of love and infatuation<br>• distinguish between the characteristics of love versus infatuation<br>• identify strong feelings arising from infatuation</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 1</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Am I Falling In Love?<br>(30 min)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>• manage strong feelings arising from infatuation<br>• identify ways to manage and cope with teasing from peers</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 1</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Main Task<br>(30 min)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Description of the Main Task:<br><br>Pupils are to play the role of a game designer who wants to create a board game to help pupils of their age learn more about the Big Idea of Relationships, specifically on family, friendships, love and infatuation. They will consider the issues that their peers would face and craft questions and answers that they believe their peers would benefit most from knowing.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 1</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3" colspan="1"><p>Friends or Foes?</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Are You Really My Friend?<br>(30 min)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>• identify the pros and cons of forming relationships through social networking websites<br>• know ways to keep themselves safe when using social networking websites</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 1</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Is It All Safe?<br>(30 min)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>• know that some information (like pornography) received through the Internet may be harmful<br>• know ways to keep themselves safe when using social networking websites or the Internet</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 1</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Main Task<br>(30 min)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Description of the Main Task:<br><br>Pupils are to apply their understanding of Safety in a variety of scenarios where the main character could be in a precarious situation. They will consider the situation from the point of view of the main character, discuss what they think and feel about the situation and what they will do or say to ensure their safety. These scenarios will provide pupils with the opportunity to demonstrate their understanding of Safety and that safety is a right and a responsibility.<br></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 1</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p><strong>Information for Parents</strong></p><p>8.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Parents may opt their children out of Sexuality Education lessons, and/or supplementary sexuality education programmes by MOE-approved external providers.</p><p>9.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Parents who wish to opt their children out of the Sexuality Education lessons need to complete an opt-out form. This form will be distributed to parents at the start of the year and is also downloadable here&nbsp;(Parent Opt-out Form <a href="/files/Annex%20A%20for%20website.pdf" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Annex A for website.pdf</a>)&nbsp;.&nbsp;The completed opt-out form is to be&nbsp;submitted by 28 February 2022.</p><p>10.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Parents can contact the school at 64566305 or email our school staff – Mrs Srividhya Shankar (Subject head CCE) <a href="srividhya_mohan@schools.gov.sg" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">srividhya_mohan@schools.gov.sg</a>&nbsp;Mdm Chua Hwee Leng (Sexuality Education Coordinator) <a href="chua_hwee_leng@schools.gov.sg" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">chua_hwee_leng@schools.gov.sg</a> for discussion or to seek clarification about the school’s&nbsp;sexuality education programme.</p><p>11.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Parents, who wish to attend the school sexuality education lessons, should contact the school to make the necessary arrangements.</p>